# MyUnidaysDiscountChallenge

This project is my solution written in Python to the challenge posted on the following link: https://github.com/MyUNiDAYS/tech-placements-19-20#delivery-charges

To run this program, simply open the Python file in a Python IDE (I used IDLE) and run the code. I have designed my code such that it can be used in the same syntax specified by the example cases in the Interface section of the challenge link. Create an object of the UnidaysDiscountChallenge class by typing example = UnidaysDiscountChallenge(). Now add an item to the basket of this object by typing example.AddToBasket("A"). You can also add multiple items at once by typing something like example.AddToBasket("EDCBAEDCBC"). To calculate the total price and delivery charge, type result = example.CalculateTotalPrice(). To access the total price type result.Total and result.DeliveryCharge to calculate the delivery charge.

Firstly, I declared a class called UnidaysDiscountChallenge in the file with a constructor, and two public methods called AddToBasket and CalculateTotalPrice. Initially I assumed that the argument for AddToBasket would be a single item (the description for the method in the challenge seemed to suggest that to me), but then I discovered after having a look at the Example Test Cases that the input could be a string containing mutiple characters with each character denoting an item. Therefore, I later modified my AddToBasket function to include a for loop which would iterate over each of the characters of the strings and add them to the basket.
The question appeared to be a bit vague in describing how the pricing rules were to be initialised. It did not mention how to specify the discount column since it was provided as strings of varying kinds, eg: 2 for 20, 3 for the price of 2, Buy 1 get 1 free. The most logical way of solving this problem would have been to make a natural language parser but that would also be over-complicating the problem. Therefore, I have defined PricingRules as a dictionary where the key is the name of the item provided and the value is a list where the first element is the price of a single item and the second element is a tuple whose first element is the number of items that qualify you for the discount, and the second element is the total price for that many items after the discount. In the part of the question where example use cases of the Interface were shown on GitHub, the object of this class was made using a pricingRules argument. Therefore I have made an optional argument in this constructor for the same. Please keep in mind that the data structure I have defined above must be used to pass the argument in order to maintain the integrity and functionality of the application. The pricing rules can therefore be modified by the user and set to the self.PricingRules variable. I also created a another variable called Basket in the constructor which is basivally a dictionary with the item as the key and the quantity as value.
I then went on to declare the CalculateTotalPrice function. This function returns two values, the total price of the order and the delivery charge. In the use case example in the Interface section of the challenge, the two items were referenced to as result.Total and result.DeliveryCharge. Therefore, I made another class called Price with two attributes for storing the two. After computing the two values using the PricingRules and the delivery charge rule provided by the question, the program stores the two values in an object of the Price class and returns that. This way, the data can be accessed in the required format of result.Total and result.DeliveryCharge.
